>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so
we've already hinted at the idea
of closure in this course.
A couple of time, we've already used it.
But I wanna be very specific
about a definition for
closure, cuz there's a lot
misconception about this concept.
And it is absolutely essential.
You just cannot do functional programming
without a solid understanding of closure.
So I wanna give you a very
specific definition for
closure that is based upon what
we can observe in our programs.
And that is closure is when a function
remembers the variables around it
even when that function
is executed elsewhere.
And by around it I mean any variables
that you access outside the function that
aren't directly passed in,
they're accessed like for,
remember when we accessed global
variables, things like that.
Anytime you access a variable
from an outer scope, and
then you take that function
that is doing that access, and
you pass it somewhere else, and
you run it in a different scope.
If you thought about it
logically you'd say, well,
it should forget about that variable,
cuz it's running in a different scope.
But it doesn't forget about the variable,
and
the reason it doesn't
is because of closure.
And if that sounds too abstract to you,
let me remind you that we've already seen
this several times in code
we've looked at today.
Here's an example,
I'm illustrating the idea of closure here.
I have a makeCounter function.
makeCounter doesn't take any inputs in it.
It declares a variable, line 2, called
counter and it returns us back a function,
which every time we call it, is going
to increment that counter variable.
So on line 8, I make my counter,
I say var c = makeCounter.
And I call c with no inputs,
and I get back the value 1.
And then I call c with no inputs and I get
back the value 2, and then 3, and then 4.
So it's in a counter, right?
Could be useful in our
programs to have a counter.
But let me ask you, this is definitely
closure because we have the inner function
increment, closing over
that counter variable.
It's remembering it,
even though makeCounter has finished,
the C function still remembers it and
can still keep updating it.
That's how it works.
That's called closure.
But I wanna ask you,
is the C function a pure function call?
>> Kyle Simpson: Look at like 10,
11, and 12.
Are those pure function calls?
>> Student: It can't be because
it's pulling from the dom.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not
pulling from the dom.
>> Student: Or pulling information.
>> Student2: Not getting the same output.
>> Student: Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: We are not getting
the same output every time.
We're passing in the same input,
which in this case, is no input.
But every time,
we're getting a different output.
So it absolutely violates one of the
fundamental premises of a pure function.
So here's the takeaway, closure is
not necessarily functionally pure.
But closure can absolutely be
used in functional theory.
So the key is if I'm
closing over a variable,
this counter, it can't be reassigned.
And if it's getting reassigned
every time that's a big no,
no because now we're not closed over
a constant anymore, we're just closed
over some changing state, in which
case we now have an impure function.
You might have to do
that in your programs but
that's not gonna be a pure function goal.
Are you with me?
So let's look at some examples of
using closure that is consistent
with functional style,
that is going to produce a pure function.
Remember unary?
That was one of the first utilities that
we looked at, our first higher order
function, It takes it an (fn), and
remembers that (fn) and uses it later.
How does it do that?
Why did the fn variable from line 1,
the parameter,
not get garbage collected
when unary finished?
>> Kyle Simpson: The answer is because the
inner function one which got returned is
holding onto that parameter,
via what we call closure.
It still has access to that thing.
So later on whenever we call f somewhere,
it still remembers
the original thing that was passed
into unary by way of the parameter fn.
And that's not the only example we
saw of closure, remember addAnother?
We talked about this one, remember
how it's referencing that z variable,
even though that z variable was
passed in and an outer scope.
The addTwo function is
closed over the variable z,
which is why it's able
to use that later on.
>> Kyle Simpson: And the key thing here is
that in the both of those slides the fn on
the previous slide and
the z on this slide.
In both of those cases we are referencing
a variable outside of ourselves,
which seems like it would to be a no no,
but
it's safe functionally
because it doesn't change.
It's a memory over a thing
that doesn't get modified.
That's what makes it still function pure.